.ig
	@(#)mkpt.8	1.3	10/28/83
	@(#)Copyright (C) 1983 by National Semiconductor Corp.
..
.TH MKPT 8
.SH NAME
mkpt \- change the disk partition tables
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mkpt
is a standalone program that may be used to edit the drive header
in order to modify the origin and/or
size of the filesystem partitions on a drive.
The size of a partition is specified in disk
.IR sectors ,
not filesystem blocks.
.PP
.I Mkpt
uses the standard notation of the standalone I/O library in identifying
a partition to be modified.
A partition is specified as
.IR dc(x,y) ,
where
.I x
refers to the unit number of the drive,
and
.I y
refers to the filesystem partition that is to be modified.
.PP
The program terminates when it receives a carriage return in response to
the prompt for a partition to modify.
Entering a carriage return in response
to other prompts will zero that field.
Invalid input detected in any response
will cause a termination of that cycle,
without modifying any field changed during that cycle.
.PP
If a partition is to be changed,
any filesystems that will be affected
by the changes should first be dumped to tape.
Next,
run
.I mkpt
and make the appropriate modifications to the partition table.
A new filesystem should then be built with
.IR mkfs (8).
After the new filesystem has been built,
restore the affected filesystems
from the dump tape.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The diagnostics are intended to be self explanatory.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/include/sys/disk.h'u+(4n)
/usr/include/sys/disk.h	disk header
.SH "SEE ALSO"
dc(4),
dcutest(8)
.SH BUGS
An equivalent facility that operates under a running
UNIX system should be available.
