.ig
	@(#)pstat.8	1.11	10/28/83
	@(#)Copyright (C) 1983 by National Semiconductor Corp.
..
.TH PSTAT 8
.SH NAME
pstat \- print system facts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/pstat
[
.B \-aixptufT
] [ suboptions ]
[ file ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Pstat
interprets the contents of certain system tables.
If
.I file
is given,
the tables are sought there;
otherwise they are sought in
.IR /dev/kmem .
The required namelist is taken from
.IR /vmunix .
Options are
.TP \w'WCHAN\ 'u
.B \-a
Under
.B \-p
or
.BR \-x ,
describe all process (or text) slots rather than just active ones.
.TP
.B \-i
Print the inode table with the these headings:
.IP LOC
The core location of this table entry.
.PD 0
.IP FLAGS
Miscellaneous state variables encoded thus:
.RS
.IP L
locked
.IP U
update time
.IR (filsys (5))
must be corrected
.IP A
access time must be corrected
.IP M
file system is mounted here
.IP W
wanted by another process (L flag is on)
.IP T
contains a text file
.IP C
changed time must be corrected
.IP P
contains a pipe
.RE
.IP CNT
Number of open file table entries for this inode.
.IP DEV
Major and minor device number of file system in which
this inode resides.
.IP INO
I-number within the device.
.IP MODE
Mode bits, see
.IR chmod (2).
.IP NLK
Number of links to this inode.
.IP UID
User ID of owner.
.IP SIZ/DEV
Number of bytes in an ordinary file, or
major and minor device of special file.
.PD
.TP
.B \-x
Print the shared text portion of the special page table with these headings:
.IP SPTI
The index into the spt table.
.PD 0
.IP LOC
The address of this table entry.
.IP FLAGS
Miscellaneous state variables encoded thus:
.RS
.IP I
text being initialized or deleted
.IP W
some process waiting for text
.IP D
no further access allowed (unused)
.IP X
resident set size is too big
.RE
.IP RSS
Resident set size \- the number of physical pages allocated
to this text segment.
.IP TRSS
Text resident set size \- the number of physical pages allocated which 
are read-only.
.IP SIZE
Virtual size of text segment, in pages.
.IP PTPGS
Number of pages in use as page tables for this text segment.
.IP PROCS
Number of processes using this text segment.
.IP SHARE
Number of pages of processes which map to pages of this text segment.
.IP IPTR
Address of corresponding inode.
.IP PTE1
Address of level 1 page table.
.IP AGE
Age counter.  More recently used texts have higher numbers.
.PD
.TP
.B \-p
Print process table for active processes with these headings:
.IP LOC
The core location of this table entry.
.PD 0
.IP S
Run state encoded thus:
.RS
.IP 0
no process
.IP 1
waiting for some event
.IP 3
runnable
.IP 4
being created
.IP 5
being terminated
.IP 6
stopped under trace
.RE
.IP F
Miscellaneous state variables, or-ed together (hexadecimal):
.RS
.IP 000001 9n
loaded
.IP 000002
a system process
.IP 000004
locked for swap out
.IP 000008
swapped out
.IP 000010
traced
.IP 000020
used in tracing
.IP 000040
process resulted from a
.IR vfork (2).
.IP 000080
process used some new signal primitives, i.e.
.IR sigset (3);
more system calls will restart.
.IP 000100
a parent of this process has exited and this process
is now considered detached.
.IP 000200
exiting
.IP 000400
in page-wait
.IP 001000
process has exceeded its cputime limit and is running on grace time;
see
.IR vlimit (2).
.RE
.IP PRI
Scheduling priority, see
.IR nice (2).
.IP SIGNAL
Signals received (signals 1-32 coded in bits 0-31),
.IP UID
Real user ID.
.IP SLP
Amount of time process has been blocked.
.IP TIM
Time resident in seconds; times over 127 coded as 127.
.IP CPU
Weighted integral of CPU time, for scheduler.
.IP NI
Nice level,
see
.IR nice (2).
.IP PGRP
Process number of root of process group
(the opener of the controlling terminal).
.IP PID
The process ID number.
.IP PPID
The process ID of parent process.
.IP RSS
Resident set size \- the number of physical pages allocated
to this process.
.IP SRSS
RSS at last swap (0 if never swapped).
.IP SIZE
Virtual size of process image (data+stack) in multiples of 1024 bytes.
.IP WCHAN
Wait channel number of a waiting process.
.IP LINK
Link pointer in list of runnable processes.
.IP SPTI
Index of the SPT table entry for this process.
.IP PTE1
Address of level 1 page table for this process.
.IP CLKT
Countdown for
.IR alarm (2)
measured in seconds.
.PD
.TP
.B \-t
Print table for terminals
with these headings:
.IP RAW
Number of characters in raw input queue.
.PD 0
.IP CAN
Number of characters in canonicalized input queue.
.IP OUT
Number of characters in output queue.
.IP MODE
See
.IR tty (4).
.IP ADDR
Physical device address.
.IP DEL
Number of delimiters (newlines) in canonicalized input queue.
.IP COL
Calculated column position of terminal.
.IP STATE
Miscellaneous state variables encoded thus:
.RS
.IP T
delay timeout in progress
.IP W
waiting for open to complete
.IP O
open
.IP C
carrier is on
.IP B
busy doing output
.IP A
process is awaiting output
.IP X
open for exclusive use
.IP H
hangup on close
.RE
.IP PGRP
Process group for which this is controlling terminal.
.IP DISC
Line discipline; blank is old tty OTTYDISC or ``ntty'' for NTTYDISC.
.PD
.TP
.B \-u
Print information about a user process;
the next argument is its pid as given
by
.IR ps (1).
.TP
.B \-f
Print the open file table with these headings:
.IP LOC
The core location of this table entry.
.PD 0
.IP FLG
Miscellaneous state variables encoded thus:
.RS
.IP R
open for reading
.IP W
open for writing
.IP P
pipe
.RE
.IP CNT
Number of processes that know this open file.
.IP INO
The location of the inode table entry for this file.
.IP OFFS
The file offset;
see
.IR lseek (2).
.PD
.TP
.B \-s
Print information about swap space usage:
the number of pages used and free is given.
.TP
.B \-T
Print the number of used and free slots in the several system tables.
This is useful for checking to see how full system tables have become if the
system is under heavy load.
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta \w'/dev/kmem'u+(4n)
/vmunix	namelist
/vmsymbols	namelist used when \f2file\fP not given
/dev/kmem	default source of tables
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ps(1), stat(2), filsys(5)
.br
K. Thompson,
.I UNIX Implementation
.SH BUGS
It would be very useful if the system recorded \*(lqmaximum occupancy\*(rq
on the tables reported by
.BR \-T ;
even more useful if these tables were dynamically allocated.
