.ig
	@(#)reboot.8	1.2	8/11/83
	@(#)Copyright (C) 1983 by National Semiconductor Corp.
..
.TH REBOOT 8
.SH NAME
reboot \- UNIX bootstrapping procedures
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/reboot
[
.B \-n
] [
.B \-q
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
UNIX is started by placing it in memory
at location zero and transferring to zero.
Since the system is not reenterable,
it is necessary to read it in from disk or tape
each time it is to be bootstrapped.
.PP
.B Rebooting a running system.
When a UNIX is running and a reboot is desired,
.IR shutdown (8)
is normally used.
If there are no users then
.B /etc/reboot
can be used.
Reboot causes the disks to be synced, and then a multi-user
reboot (as described below) is initiated.  This causes a system to be
booted and an automatic disk check to be performed.  If all this succeeds
without incident, the system is then brought up for many users.
.PP
Options to reboot are:
.TP
.B \-n
option avoids the sync.  It can be used if a disk or the processor
is on fire!  (It is no longer necessary to reboot after rebuilding
the root file system.)
.TP
.B \-q
reboots quickly and ungracefully, without shutting down running
processes first.
.PP
.B "Power fail and crash recovery."
Normally, the system will reboot itself at power-up or after crashes.
Provided the auto-restart is enabled on the machine front panel,
an automatic consistency check of the file systems will be performed
then and unless this fails the system will resume multi-user operations.
.PP
.B Cold starts.
The monitor can boot machine with following commands
.PP
Giving the command
.IP
b
invokes a version of the boot program in a way which allows you to
specify any system as the system to be booted.
It reads from the console a device specification (see below) followed
immediately by a pathname.
check as described in
.IR fsck (8).
The command
.IP
k
.LP
Would load Boot program from ROM. Then can load 'vmunix from dcu unit 1.
.PP
On both processors, the 
.I boot
program
finds the corresponding file on the given device, loads that file
into memory location zero, and starts the program at the entry address
specified in the program header.
Normal line editing characters can be used in specifying the pathname.
.PP
A device specification has the following form:
.IP
device(unit, minor)
.PP
where
.I device
is the type of the device to be searched,
.I unit
is 8* the dcu unit number plus
the unit number of the device,
and
.I minor
is the minor device index.
The following list of supported devices may vary from installation to
installation:
.ta 5 10
.nf
	IMAI	20Mega byte
	IMAI	60Mega byte
	3M	20Mega byte
	3M	60Mega byte
.fi
.PP
For tapes, the minor device number gives a file offset.
.PP
In an emergency, the bootstrap methods described in the paper
``Setting up the Fourth Berkeley Software Tape'' can be used
to boot from a distribution tape.
.SH FILES
.ta
/vmunix	system code
.br
/boot	system bootstrap
.SH "SEE ALSO"
crash(8), fsck(8), init(8), rc(8), shutdown(8), halt(8)
