.ig
	@(#)reboot.2v	1.2	6/30/83
	@(#)Copyright (C) 1983 by National Semiconductor Corp.
..
.TH REBOOT 2V
.SH NAME
reboot \- reboot system or halt processor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/reboot.h>
.PP
.B reboot(howto)
.B int howto;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Reboot
is used to cause a system reboot, and is invoked automatically
in the event of unrecoverable system failures.
.I Howto
is a mask of options passed to the bootstrap program.
The system call interface permits only RB_HALT or RB_AUTOBOOT
to be passed to the reboot program.
When none of these options (e.g. RB_AUTOBOOT) is given, the system is rebooted
from file \*(lqvmunix\*(rq in the root file system of unit 0
of a disk chosen in a processor specific way:
it is determined by the setting
of the front switch pack switch 3 and 4.
If both switch 3 and switch 4 are On then processor will enter the ROM
monitor which will pick the bootstrap device.
.PP
The bits of
.I howto
are:
.TP
RB_HALT
the processor is simply halted; no reboot takes place.
The Cpu locks out all interrupts and executes the WAIT instruction.
.TP
RB_ASKNAME
Interpreted by the bootstrap program itself, causing it to
inquire as to what file should be booted.  Normally, the system is
booted from the file \*(lqxx(0,0)vmunix\*(rq without asking, where
.I xx
is determined by a code in register
.I r7
(which is known as
.I devtype)
at entry to the bootstrap program.  The code corresponds to the
major device number of the root file system, i.e. \*(lqmajor(rootdev)\*(rq.
Currently, the following values of
.I devtype
are understood:
.RS
.br
.ns
.IP
.nf
0	disk
1	tape
.fi
.RE
.IP
Thus if
.I r7
contained a 2, the system
.RS
.IP
.B dc(1,0)vmunix.
.RE
.IP
would be booted.
This switch not available from the system call interface.
.TP
RB_SINGLE
Normally, the reboot procedure involves an automatic disk consistency
check and then multi-user operations.  This prevents the consistency
check, rather simply booting the system with a single-user shell on
the console, from the file system specified by
.I r7.
This switch is interpreted by the
.IR init (8)
program in the newly booted system.
This switch is not available from the system call interface.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
crash(8), halt(8), init(8), reboot(8)
