.ig
	@(#)vmap.2v	1.5	10/31/83
	@(#)Copyright (C) 1983 by National Semiconductor Corp.
..
.TH VMAP 2V
.SH NAME
vmap \- perform various mapping operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B vmap(function, addr1, addr2, pid)
.B char *addr1;
.B char *addr2;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Vmap
performs various memory mapping functions, depending on the value of
.IR function .
The arguments
.I addr1
and
.I addr2
are page addresses, so that the lower 10 bits of the addresses are ignored
(pages are 1024 bytes in size).
.PP
When the value of 
.I function 
is 0, the memory page located at the address
specified by 
.I addr1
.RI ( addr2
and
.I pid
are unused) is removed.
The memory page can be a text, data, or stack page.
Any further reference to the page will create a page of zeroes, if
the address is legal (within the text, data, or stack segments).
.PP
When the value of
.I function is 1,
a page of the process specified by
.I pid
is copied into the current process.
The address of the page being copied is specified by
.IR addr2 .
The page is copied into the current process at the address specified by
.IR addr1 .
If the specified source page is illegal or nonexistent, a page of zeroes
is returned.
This function is restricted to the super-user.
.I Ps
and
.I w
use this function to obtain the command arguments for other processes.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
vspy(2V), vlock(2V)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Zero is returned if the call was successful. -1 is returned if any of the
arguments are illegal or if the user is not privileged.
.SH BUGS
Many desired functions are missing.
This call is temporary and will be changed or superceded in the future.
This call is only implemented in GENIX.
