.ig
	@(#)vspy.2v	1.2	10/27/83
	@(#)Copyright (C) 1983 by National Semiconductor Corp.
..
.TH VSPY 2V
.SH NAME
vspy \- set up mapping to physical memory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B vspy(virtaddr, physaddr, flag)
.B char *virtaddr;
.B char *physaddr;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Vspy
changes the mmu mapping for the current process to allow references directly
to physical memory.  This capability allows user mode programs to communicate
directly with the various peripherals of the system (such as a bitmapped
graphics screen).
.PP
.I Virtaddr
is the address in the process which is to be used to access the physical
memory.
.I Physaddr
is the physical memory address to be accessed, or -1 to remove existing
access to physical memory.
.I Flag
is 0 if only read access is desired, or 1 if both read and write access
is desired.
.PP
Since the lowest mapping granularity for GENIX is one page (1024 bytes),
the low order ten bits of the given addresses are ignored, so that the
whole virtual page specified by
.I virtaddr
will map to the whole physical memory page specified by
.I physaddr.
Thus to reference a particular offset into the physical memory page, you
must access the same offset into the virtual memory page.
.PP
The
.I virtaddr
specified does not have to lie within the data, text, or stack segment
of the process, so that memory does not have to be allocated using
.IR sbrk (2)
before calling
.I vspy.
If the page specified by
.I virtaddr
already exists, that page is deleted.
.IR Fork (2)
will duplicate the physical mapping for the new process.  A successful
.IR exec (2)
or
.IR exit (2)
removes all existing physical mapping.  Only the super-user is allowed to 
map physical memory arbitrarily.  However, certain physical memory addresses
corresponding to "safe" devices (such as the graphics memory) may be
mapped by anyone.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
vlock(2V)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Zero is returned if the call was successful. -1 is returned if any of the
arguments are illegal or if the user is not privileged.
.SH BUGS
I/O cannot be done to pages mapped to physical memory.  Arguments to
system calls cannot lie in such pages either.
