.ig
	@(#)gettytab.5	1.3	8/1/83
	@(#)Copyright (C) 1983 by National Semiconductor Corp.
..
.TH GETTYTAB 5
.SH NAME
gettytab \- terminal line description database
.SH SYNOPSIS
/etc/gettytab
.SH DESCRIPTION
Each time a new instance of
.IR getty (8)
starts up,
it reads
.I gettytab
to obtain information on what line characteristics
are appropriate for the terminal port in question.
.PP
.I Gettytab
is structured as a sequence of lines of the form:
.RS
.sp
type nexttype speed initflags finalflags loginmsg
.sp
.RE
Fields are separated by spaces.
Blank lines and lines starting with the character `#' are comments.
.PP
.I Type
and
.I nexttype
name entries in
.IR gettytab ;
.I type
names the current entry,
and
.I nexttype
gives the name of the next entry for
.I getty
to try
(after it receives a break).
Entries are usually arranged in cycles.
Because
.I init
passes a single character to
.I getty
as argument,
the
.I type
of the first entry in a cycle
should consist of a single character.
Entries that are not directly accessible may have multi-character
.IR type s.
.PP
.I Speed
gives the line speed to use;
legal values are:
.BR 0 ,
.BR 50 ,
.BR 75 ,
.BR 110 ,
.BR 134 ,
.BR 134.5 ,
.BR 150 ,
.BR 200 ,
.BR 300 ,
.BR 600 ,
.BR 1200 ,
.BR 1800 ,
.BR 2400 ,
.BR 4800 ,
.BR 9600 ,
.BR 19200 ,
.BR EXTA ,
.BR EXTB ,
and
.BR ? .
The last of these denotes unknown speed;
it tells
.I getty
to apply its auto-baud routine to determine the true line speed.
.PP
.I Initflags
and
.I finalflags
give mode flags
(as in
.IR /usr/include/sgtty.h )
for
.I getty
to apply respectively
when reading the login name and afterwards.
Legal values are:
.BR ANYP ,
.BR BS1 ,
.BR CBREAK ,
.BR CR1 ,
.BR CR2 ,
.BR CR3 ,
.BR CRMOD ,
.BR ECHO ,
.BR EVENP ,
.BR FF1 ,
.BR LCASE ,
.BR NL1 ,
.BR NL2 ,
.BR NL3 ,
.BR ODDP ,
.BR RAW ,
.BR TAB1 ,
.BR TAB2 ,
.BR TANDEM ,
and
.BR XTABS .
Multiple values may be given,
separated by `|'.
.PP
.I Loginmsg
is a string to be printed immediately before the banner.
Control characters and spaces are represented by C-style escapes.
.SH EXAMPLE
Here is a sample pair of entries:
.sp
.nf
# VT100 and similar terminals:
#	Cycles between 9600 and 19200 baud;
#	makes the banner line double width.
v v19200 9600 ANYP|RAW|NL1|CR1 ANYP|XTABS|ECHO|CRMOD \e33<\e33[2J\e33#6
v19200 v 19200 ANYP|RAW|NL1|CR1 ANYP|XTABS|ECHO|CRMOD \e33<\e33[2J\e33#6
.fi
.SH FILES
/usr/include/sgtty.h	flag and speed values
.SH "SEE ALSO"
getty(8), init(8), tty(4), ttys(5)
