.ig
	@(#)cdc.1	1.4	11/1/83
	@(#)Copyright (C) 1983 by National Semiconductor Corp.
..
.tr ~
.nr f 0
.de SP
.if n .ul
\%[\f3\-\\$1\f1\&\\c
.if n .ul 0
\\$2\\$3
..
.de SF
.if n .ul
\%[\f3\-\\$1\f1]
.if n .ul 0
..
.de ZZ
.hc ^
\f3^...\f1
.hc
..
.de AR
.if \\nf \{ \
.    RE
.    nr f 0 \}
.PP
.RS 5
.TP 15
\f3\-\\$1\\f1\&
\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7 \\$8 \\$9
.nr f 1
..
.de C1
.if \\nf \{ \
.    RE
.    nr f 0 \}
.PP
.RS 5
.TP 15
\\$1
\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7 \\$8 \\$9
.nr f 1
..
.de A1
.if \\nf \{ \
.    RE
.    nr f 0 \}
.PP
.RS 5
.TP 15
\f3\-\\$1\f1[\f2\\$2\^\f1]
\\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7 \\$8 \\$9
.nr f 1
..
.de A2
.if \\nf \{ \
.    RE
.    nr f 0 \}
.PP
.RS 5
.TP 15
\f3\-\\$1\f1\f2\\$2\^\f1\&
\\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7 \\$8 \\$9
.nr f 1
..
.de FI
.PP
.TP 30
\\$1
\\$2
.i0
..
.ds F) \f3\s-1FILES\s0\f1
.ds W) \f2\s-1WARNINGS\s0\^\f1
.ds X) \f2\s-1EXAMPLES\s0\^\f1
.ds T) \f3\s-1TABLE\s0\f1
.ds K) \f3\s-1DATA KEYWORDS\s0\f1
.ds D) \f3\s-1DDDDD\s0\f1
.ds M) \f3\s-1MR\s0\f1
.ds R) \f3\s-1RELEASE NUMBER\s0\f1
.ds S) \s-1SCCS\s0
.ds I) \f2\s-1SID\s0\f1
.de F1
.if \\nf \{ \
.    RE
.    nr f 0 \}
.PP
.RS 13
.TP 7
\f3\\$1\f1\f2\\$2\^\f1\&
\\$3
.nr f 1
..
.de F2
.if \\nf \{ \
.    RE
.    nr f 0 \}
.PP
.RS 13
.TP 7
\f3\\$1\f1[\f2\\$2\^\f1]
\\$3
.nr f 1
..
.TH CDC 1
.SH NAME
cdc \- change the delta commentary of an \s-1SCCS\s0 delta
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cdc
.B \-r\c
.SM SID
.SP m [mrlist]]
.SP y [comment]]
files
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Cdc\^
changes the
.IR "delta commentary" ,
for the \*(I) specified by the
.B \-r
keyletter,
of each
named \*(S) file.
.PP
.I "Delta commentary\^"
is defined to be the Modification Request (\*(M)) and comment
information normally specified via the
.IR delta (1)
command
.RB ( \-m
and
.B \-y
keyletters).
.PP
If a directory is named,
.I cdc\^
behaves as though each file in the directory were
specified as a named file,
except that non-\*(S) files
(last component of the path name does not begin with
.BR s. )
and unreadable files
are silently ignored.
If a name of
.B \-
is given, the standard input is read (see \%\*(W));
each line of the standard input is taken to be the name of an \*(S) file
to be processed.
.PP
Arguments to
.IR cdc ,
which may appear in any order, consist of
.I keyletter\^
arguments, and file names.
.PP
All the described
.I keyletter\^
arguments apply independently to each named file:
.A2 r \s-1SID\s0 Used
to specify the
.IR S \s-1CCS\s0
.IR ID entification
(\*(I))
string
of a delta for
which the delta commentary is to be changed.
.A1 m mrlist If
the \*(S) file has the
.B v
flag set
(see
.IR admin (1))
then a
list of \*(M) numbers to be added and/or deleted in
the delta commentary of
the \*(I) specified by the
.B \-r
keyletter
.I may\^
be supplied.
A null \*(M) list has no effect.
.C1 \& \*(M)
entries are added to the list of \*(M)s in the same manner as that of
.IR delta (1).
In order to delete an \*(M), precede the \*(M) number
with the character
.B !
(see \*(X)).
If the \*(M) to be deleted is currently in the list of \*(M)s, it is
removed
and changed into a ``comment'' line.
A list of all deleted \*(M)s is placed in the comment section
of the delta commentary and preceded by a comment line stating
that they were deleted.
.C1 \& If
.B \-m
is not used and the standard input is a terminal, the prompt
.B \s-1MR\s0s?
is issued on the standard output before the standard input
is read; if the standard input is not a terminal, no prompt is issued.
The
.B \s-1MR\s0s?
prompt always precedes the
.B comments?
prompt
(see
.B \-y
keyletter).
.C1 \& \*(M)s
in a list are separated by blanks and/or tab characters.
An unescaped new-line character terminates the \*(M) list.
.C1 \& Note
that if the
.B v
flag has a value
(see
.IR admin (1)),
it is taken to be the name of a program (or shell procedure) which validates
the correctness of the \*(M) numbers.
If a non-zero exit status is returned from the \*(M) number validation program,
.I cdc\^
terminates
and the delta commentary remains unchanged.
.A1 y comment Arbitrary
text used to replace the
.IR comment\^ (s)
already existing
for the delta specified by the
.B \-r
keyletter.
The previous comments are kept and preceded by a comment
line stating that they were changed.
A null
.I comment\^
has no effect.
.C1 \& If
.B \-y
is not specified and the standard input is a terminal, the
prompt
.B comments?
is issued on the standard output before
the standard input is read;
if the standard input is not a terminal, no prompt is issued.
An unescaped new-line character terminates the
.I comment\^
text.
.i0
.PP
The exact permissions necessary to modify the \*(S) file
are documented in the
.IR "Source Code Control System User's Guide" .
Simply stated,
they are either (1)
if you made the delta, you can change its delta commentary;
or (2)
if you own the file and directory you can modify the delta commentary.
.SH EXAMPLES
.RS 5n
cdc \-r1\f3.\fP6 \-m"bl78-12345 !bl77-54321 bl79-00001" \-ytrouble s\f3.\fPfile
.RE
.PP
adds bl78-12345 and bl79-00001 to the \*(M) list, removes bl77-54321
from the \*(M) list, and adds the comment
.B trouble
to delta
.RB 1 . 6
of
.RB s . file.
.PP
.RS 5n
cdc \-r1\f3.\f1\&6 s\f3.\f1file
.br
\s-1MR\s0s? !bl77-54321 bl78-12345 bl79-00001
.br
comments? trouble
.RE
.PP
does the same thing.
.DT
.SH WARNINGS
If \*(S) file names are supplied to the
.I cdc\^
command via the standard input
.RB ( \-
on the command line),
then the
.B \-m
and
.B \-y
keyletters must also be used.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 10
x-file
(see
.IR delta (1))
.TP
z-file
(see
.IR delta (1))
.PD
.SH "NOTE"
In many cases,
the
.I fix
entry point of the
.I sccs
command can be used to do much the same thing as
.IR cdc ,
but without the visual ugliness
.I cdc
produces in the new commentary.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sccs(1),
admin(1),
delta(1),
get(1),
sccshelp(1),
prs(1),
prt(1),
sccsfile(5).
.br
.I "Source Code Control System User's Guide\^"
by L. E. Bonanni and C. A. Salemi.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Use
.IR sccshelp (1)
for explanations.
.tr ~~
