.ig
	@(#)cu16.1	1.6	9/20/83
	@(#)Copyright (C) 1983 by National Semiconductor Corp.
..
.if t .ds T ~\ 
.if n .ds T ~
.TH CU16 1
.SH NAME
cu16 \- remote terminal program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cu16
[
.B -s 
[ 
.B \-b
] 110 300 600 1200 2400 4800 9600 ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Cu16
opens a remote line as a terminal.
It talks to a tty device connected to a serial port
on another system.
It manages an interactive conversation and echoes 
terminal input.
.I Cu16
uses the value of the
.I DDTPORT
environment variable
to find which device to open as a remote line.
.PP
The default transmission speed for the port is 9600 baud.
The
.B \-s 
flag sets transmission speeds (110, 300, 600, 1200, 2400, 
4800, 9600 baud).
.I Cu16
does not support modems for dial-up connections.
.PP
The
.B \-b
flag specifies that nulls are to be turned into breaks.
This allows the break key and the ASCII NUL character (control-shift-@
on many terminals) to send a break.
.PP
After making the connection,
.I cu16
runs as two processes:
the
.I send
process reads the standard input and
passes most of it to the remote system;
the
.I receive
process reads from the remote system and passes
most data to the standard output.
Lines beginning with `\*T' have special meanings.
.PP
The
.I send
process interprets the following:
.TP 18
\*T\|\f3.\|
terminate the conversation.
.br
.ns
.TP 18
\*TEOT
terminate the conversation.
.TP 18
\*T< file
send the contents of
.I file
to the remote system,
as though typed at the terminal.
.TP 18
\*T^ Z
suspend the
.I cu16
program.
Note that the control-Z must be followed by a newline.
.TP 18
\*T#
sends a break.
.TP 18
\*T!
invoke an interactive shell on the local system.
.TP 18
\*T!cmd ...
run the command on the local system
(via
.BR "sh \-c" ")."
.TP 18
\*T$cmd ...
run the command locally and send its output
to the remote system.
.TP 18
\*T%take from [to]
copy file `from' (on the remote system)
to file `to' on the local system.
If `to' is omitted,
the `from' name is used both places.
.TP 18
\*T%put from [to]
copy file `from' (on local system)
to file `to' on remote system.
If `to' is omitted, the `from' name is used both places.
.TP 18
\*T:
during an output diversion, this toggles whether the operation of
.I cu16
will be silent, i.e., whether information received from the remote
system will be written to the standard output.
This allows a ``progress report'' during long transfers.
.TP 18
\*T\*T\f3\|.\|.\|.\fP
send
the line `~\|.\|.\|.'.
.PP
Both the
.I send
and
.I receive
processes handle output diversions of the following form:
.PP
\&~>[>][:]file
.br
zero or more lines to be written to file
.br
\&~>
.PP
In any case, output is diverted (or appended, if `>>' used) to the file.
If `:' is used,
the diversion is
.I silent,
i.e., it is written only to the file.
If `:' is omitted,
output is written both to the file and to the standard output.
The trailing `~>' terminates the diversion.
.PP
The use of
.B "\*T%put"
requires
.I stty
and
.I cat
on the remote side.
It also requires that the
erase and kill characters on the remote
system be identical to the ones on the local system.
Backslashes are inserted at appropriate places.
.PP
The use of
.B "\*T%take"
requires the existence of
.I echo
and
.I tee
on the remote system.
Also,
.B "stty tabs"
mode is required on the remote system if
tabs are to be copied without expansion.
.SH FILES
/dev/tty??	the remote line to open
.SH "SEE ALSO"
 tty(4), stty(1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Exit code is
zero for normal exit,
nonzero otherwise.
