.ig
	@(#)lpr.1	1.5	11/2/83
	@(#)Copyright (C) 1983 by National Semiconductor Corp.
..
.TH LPR 1
.UC 4
.SH NAME
lpr, lprm, lpq, print \- line printer spooler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lpr
[
.B \-m
] [
.B \-s ] [name ... ]
.br
.B lprm
[[
.B \-s
][
.B \-a ]
[
id ...
] [
filename ...
] [
owner ...
]
.br
.B lpq
.br
.B print
file ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Lpr
causes the
named files
to be queued for printing.
If no files are named, the standard input is read.
The option
.B \-m
causes notification via
.IR mail (1)
to be sent when the job completes.
.PP
.I Lprm
removes an entry from a line printer queue. The default is to remove files
from the parallel queue, but 
.B \-s
causes the program to operate on the serial queue.
Individual files can be removed by providing an
id, filename or owner reported by
.I lpq,
while
.B \-a
will remove all of the files on the queue.  The
.I id
of each file removed from the queue will be printed.
.PP
.I Lpq
prints the serial and parallel line printer queues.
Each entry in a queue is printed showing the owner of the queue entry,
an identification number,
the size of the entry in characters,
and the file which is to be printed.
The
.I id
is useful for removing a specific entry from the printer queue using
.IR lprm (1).
.PP
.I Print
.I pr's
a copy of each named file on the line printer.
It is a one line shell script:
.PP
.DT
	pr $* | lpr
.SH FILES
.ta 2i
/usr/spool/lp	parallel printer device
.br
/usr/spool/slp	serial printer device	
.br
/usr/spool/lpd/*	parallel spool area
.br
/usr/spool/slp/*	serial spool area
.br
/usr/lib/lpd	parallel printer daemon
.br
/usr/lib/slpd	serial printer daemon
.br
/usr/lib/lpf	filter to handle banners and underlining for parallel printer
.br
/usr/lib/slpf	filter for serial printer
.SH SEE\ ALSO
pr(1)
.SH BUGS
