.ig
	@(#)monfix.1	1.5	9/20/83
	@(#)Copyright (C) 1983 by National Semiconductor Corp.
..
.TH MONFIX 1
.SH NAME
monfix \- a monitor maker
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B monfix
[ options ]
.I file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Monfix
modifies the first 16 bytes of the text segment of
.I file
for an NS16032-based board.
.I File
must contain an a.out format program.
.PP
.I Monfix
makes the first text byte the entry point since any NS16032
board bootstrap program requires that the first text byte be
the entry point.
.PP
.I Monfix 
adds three instructions to the file: load module register,
load static base register,
and branch to the real entry point.
The values for these three addresses are computed from
the a.out header.  The default load address is zero.
Instructions generated and starting addresses are:
.sp
.RS 8
address	    instruction
.RE
.sp
.RS 11
.nf
0	lprw	mod,modvalue	
4	lprd	sb,sbvalue	
10	br	entrypoint	
.fi
.RE
.PP
.B \-b
.I number
.RS 5
Use
.I number
as the address where the program will
be loaded.  Zero is default.
.RE
.PP
.B \-e
.I number
.RS 5
Real entry point is at address
.IR number .
.I Monfix
uses
.I number 
as the parameter for the br (third) instruction.
.RE
.PP
.B \-m
.I number
.RS 5
Initial MOD register value is
.IR number .
.I Monfix
uses
.I number
as the parameter for the lprw (first) instruction.
.RE
.PP
.B \-s  
.I number
.RS 5
Initial static base register value is
.IR number .
.I Monfix
uses
.I number
as the parameter for the lprd (second) instruction.
.RE
.PP
All
.I numbers
are hexadecimal.
.PP
The default 
.I file 
is 
.IR a.out .
.SH FILES
.nr aa \w'a\.out'
.ta \n(aau+(3n)
a.out	default output file
.SH "SEE ALSO"
nburn(1)
.SH "CROSS-SUPPORT"
In a cross-support environment, the default output filee is 
.IR a16.out .
