.ig
	@(#)nburn.1	1.5	9/20/83
	@(#)Copyright (C) 1983 by National Semiconductor Corp.
..
.TH NBURN 1
.SH NAME
nburn \- an EPROM burner
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nburn
[
.B \-s
] [ \f2number\fP [ \f2number\fP ] ] byte [ \f2file\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Nburn
dumps the specified bytes of 
.I file
over the auxiliary port of a VT101-compatible 
terminal to a Data I/O System 19 EPROM burner.
.I File
must contain a program in a.out format.  
.I A.out 
is the default file name.
.PP
Byte is either
.B e
or
.BR o .
The
.BR e / o 
option indicates that either even or odd bytes are to be dumped.
.PP
The first optional
.I number
specifies the offset into the text/data bytes where 
.I nburn 
should begin taking bytes.  The second optional
.I number
specifies the EPROM size.  The default size is 2, which is
2048 bytes, for 2716 EPROMs.  Both optional 
.I numbers
are decimal multiples of 1024 (for example, 4 is 4096).
.PP
.B \-s
option dumps the static base segment of 
.I file.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.RS 5
This example illustrates how to dump a 13K byte
program to 2732 EPROMs.
Since each 2732 holds 4096 bytes, the program will fit into
four 2732 EPROMs.
The following four commands burn the EPROMs:
.PP
.RS 5
nburn \-s 0 4 e exfile

nburn \-s 0 4 o exfile

nburn \-s 8 4 e exfile

nburn \-s 8 4 o exfile
.RE
.PP
.I Nburn
prints the test size and the data
size, for the whole file.
When
.I Nburn
completes the dump, it prints the number of bytes dumped
and the checksum.
.SH FILES
a.out	default file
.SH "SEE ALSO"
monfix(1)
.SH "CROSS-SUPPORT"
In a cross-support environment, the default output file is
.IR a16.out .
