.ig
	@(#)nm.1	1.9	9/20/83
	@(#)Copyright (C) 1983 by National Semiconductor Corp.
..
.if t .ds U _\ 
.if n .ds U \*U
.TH NM 1  
.SH NAME
nm \- print name list (nnm for cross-support)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nm
[
.B \-aghlmnopru
] [ \f2file\fP ... ]
.sp
.B nnm
[
.B \-aghlmnopru
] [ \f2file\fP ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Nm
prints the name list (symbol table) of each object
.I file
in the argument list.
If an argument
is an archive, a listing for each object
file in the archive will be produced.
If no
.I file
is given, the symbols in
.I a.out
are listed.
.PP
Each symbol name is preceded by its value (blanks if undefined)
and one of the letters
.B U
(undefined),
.B A
(absolute),
.B T
(text segment symbol),
.B D
(data segment symbol),
.B B
(bss segment symbol),
.B C
(common symbol),
.B f
(file name),
or
.B \-
for full symbol table entries (see
.B \-a
below).
If the symbol is local (non-external) the type letter is in
lower case.
The output is sorted alphabetically.
.PP
Options are:
.TP 8
.B \-a
Include all symbol table entries as candidates for printing; normally
symbols destined for
.IR ddt (1)
are excluded.
This option uses a different format from the other 
options so combining it with 
.B \-u
or
.B \-q
is prohibited. The format has six parts:
.RS 10
.IP
value
.br
name
.br
type
.br
symbol name
.br
type information
.br
addressing mode
.RE
.RS 8
.LP
The first three parts are hexadecimal numbers which represent the three
long words of the symbol table entries n\*Uvalue, n\*Uname, and n\*Utype
(see 
.IR stab (5)).
Value specifies the displacement for the 
addressing mode.  The lower 5 bits of n\*Uname tell the addressing
mode and the higher 26 bits give the offset into
the string table.  N\*Utype is broken into several groups of
bits which give type information for this symbol table entry.
The fourth part is the name of the symbol.
This is followed by type information that explains the type word.
Finally,
.I nm
prints the addressing mode for the symbol.
Displacements in the addressing mode are 
in decimal.
.RE
.TP
.B  \-g
Print only global (external) symbols.
.TP 8
.B  \-h
Print the 
.I a.out 
file header.
.TP 8
.B  \-l
Print the link table.
.TP 8
.B  \-m
Print the Module Table.
.TP 8
.B \-n
Sort numerically rather than alphabetically.
.TP 8
.B  \-o
Prepend file or archive element name to each
output line rather than only once.
.TP 8
.B  \-p
Don't sort; print in symbol-table order.
.TP 8
.B  \-r
Sort in reverse order.
.TP 8
.B  \-u
Print only undefined symbols.
.SH SEE ALSO
ar(1), a.out(5), stab(5)
.SH CROSS-SUPPORT
In a cross-support environment 
.I nm
is called
.I nmm
and the default name of the object file is
.IR a16.out .
