.ig
	@(#)pc.1	1.7	11/1/83
	@(#)Copyright (C) 1983 by National Semiconductor Corp.
..
.TH PC 1
.SH NAME
pc \-  Pascal compiler (nmpc for cross-support)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pc
[ options ]
.I sourcefile
.sp
.B nmpc
[ options ]
.I sourcefile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Pc
is a Pascal compiler.
If given an argument file ending with .p, it will
compile the file and load it into an executable file called, by default,
.IR a.out .
If given an argument ending with `.s'
it will assemble the file and load it.
.PP
The following options are allowed in
.IR pc .
.TP
.SM
.B \-C
Compile code to perform run-time checks. 
.TP
.B \-c
Suppress loading and produce `.o' file from source file.
.TP
.B \-l
Make the assembler listing in `.l' file.
.TP
.BI \-o " name"
Name the object file output 
.I name 
instead of 
.IR a.out .
.TP
.SM
.B \-S
Create assembly language program only and leave it
on the corresponding `.s' file.  The program is not assembled or loaded.
(No `.o' is created.)
.TP
.B \-s
Accept ANSI Pascal only; 
non-standard constructs cause warning diagnostics.
.TP
.B \-q
Pass this switch to the assembler which then puts the link table
relative to the sb register.
This speeds up execution time of external calls.
See
.IR as (1).
.PP
All other options will be interpreted as load-time options (see 
.IR ld (1)).
.SH FILES
.nf
.nr aa \w'/usr/bin/lib/pmsg'
.ta \n(aau+(3n)
file.p	pascal source files
file.s	assembler source files
file.o	object files
/tmp/ptmxxxxxxo	temporary assembler file
/usr/bin/lib/pcom	pascal compiler
/usr/bin/lib/pmsg	error message generator
/usr/lib/libp.a	run-time library
/usr/lib/libm.a	run-time math library
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "NS16000 Pascal Language Specification" ,
as(1), ld(1)
.SH CROSS-SUPPORT
In a cross-support environment, 
.I pc
is called
.IR nmpc ,
and the default output file is
.IR a16.out .
Output assembly language files are suffixed with `.s' and output 
object files are suffixed with `.o'.
Also the library is taken from /usr/NSC/lib/libp.a
and /usr/tmp is used instead of /tmp.
.SH BUGS
.I Pc
generates only array bound checks as run-time checks.
.sp
Number minint \*(lq-2147483648\*(rq cannot be used in source,
although it can be represented.
\*(lq-2147483647-1\*(rq should be used instead.
