.ig
	@(#)remind.1	1.2	6/29/83
	@(#)Copyright (C) 1983 by National Semiconductor Corp.
..
.TH REMIND 1
.SH NAME
remind \- date book
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B remind
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I
Remind
is a date oriented reminder service.
It reads the file `reminder' in the current directory, checks for
today's or tomorrow's date, and prints lines that match.
A weekend tomorrow extends to the following Monday.
Typically, .login or .profile files should be set to run 
.I
remind
automatically.
.PP
Each line in `reminder'  consists of a date specification followed
optionally by ';' and a reminder message.
Most date formats are understood.
Months may be specified as numbers or words.
Including a time in the date will fail.
Any extraneous words or numbers in the date will cause an error.
A weekday may be specified with or without a date.
The year is checked as well as the month and the day.
Either `82' or `1982' is acceptable, the default is the current year.
Ranges may be specified as n:m, or word1:word2.
A line beginning with '#' may be used for comments.
A sample reminder file might be:
.RS 5
.PP
Friday; TGIF.
.br
Monday 1:7 Sept; Labor Day.
.br
4 July; Independence Day.
.br
8/17/1982; Dentist, 10am.
.RE
.PP
Note that the second line matches the first Monday in September, Labor
Day.
It will print on the previous Friday, Saturday, and Sunday as well as Labor Day
Monday.
.PP
A range specified from high to low, i.e. 30:20 will be checked as if
it wrapped around the end of valid ranges for the field.
.PP
For readability, when
.I
remind
prints a line the date expression is replaced with the matching date.
.SH FILES
reminder
.SH SEE ALSO
calendar(1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If an error occurs in the date, the line is printed,
the point the error occurred is flagged with '^', and an error message
is printed.
