.ig
	@(#)rmdel.1	1.3	6/29/83
	@(#)Copyright (C) 1983 by National Semiconductor Corp.
..
.ds I)  \s-1SID\s0
.TH RMDEL 1
.SH NAME
rmdel \- remove a delta from an \s-1SCCS\s0 file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rmdel
.if n .ul
\fB\-r\fR\c
.if n .ul 0
\*(I)
files
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Rmdel\^
removes the delta specified by the
.SM \fISID\fP
from each
named \s-1SCCS\s0 file.
The delta to be removed must be the newest (most recent) delta
in its branch in the delta chain of each
named \s-1SCCS\s0 file.
In addition,
the \*(I) specified must
.I not\^
be that of a version being edited for the purpose of
making a delta (i. e.,
if a
.I p-file\^
(see
.IR get (1))
exists for the named \s-1SCCS\s0 file,
the \*(I) specified must
.I not\^
appear in any entry of the
.I p-file\c\^
).
.PP
If a directory is named,
.I rmdel\^
behaves as though each file in the directory were
specified as a named file,
except that non-\s-1SCCS\s0 files
(last component of the path name does not begin with \fBs.\fR)
and unreadable files
are silently ignored.
If a name of \fB\-\fR is given, the standard input is read;
each line of the standard input is taken to be the name of an \s-1SCCS\s0 file
to be processed;
non-\s-1SCCS\s0 files and unreadable files are silently ignored.
.PP
The exact permissions necessary to remove a delta
are documented in the
.IR "Source Code Control System User's Guide" .
Simply stated,
they are either (1)
if you make a delta you can remove it;
or (2)
if you own the file and directory you can remove a delta.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 10
x-file
(see
.IR delta (1))
.TP 10
z-file
(see
.IR delta (1))
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
delta(1),
get(1),
sccshelp(1),
prs(1),
prt(1),
sccs(1),
sccsfile(5).
.br
.I "Source Code Control System User's Guide\^"
by L. E. Bonanni and C. A. Salemi.
.br
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Use
.IR sccshelp (1)
for explanations.
