.ig
	hangman.6: version 1.2 of 8/12/83
	UNIX Game Manual Page Source

	@(#)hangman.6	1.2	(NSC)	8/12/83
..
.TH HANGMAN 6
.SH NAME
hangman \- Computer version of the game hangman for CRTs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hangman
[score-file]
.SH DESCRIPTION
In
.I hangman,
the computer picks a seven or more letter word from the on-line word list
and you must try to guess it, one letter at a time.  If you guess a letter
correctly, all occurrences of the letter in the word are filled in.
If you guess wrongly, a section of a man (or woman) is drawn.  After seven
wrong guesses, the person is complete and you lose, which costs you two
additional letters.  Your score for a game is the number of wrong guesses
taken, and is from 0 to 6 if you win, and 9 if you lose.
.PP
If the screen gets messed up, typing control-l will refresh it.
.PP
.I Hangman
keeps track of the average score for all your games, the scores of your
latest ten games, and a histogram of all of your scores.  The histogram
tells you how many 0 move games, 1 move games, etc., you have played.  The
dash seperates won games from lost games.
.PP
If you give a score file on the command line when starting
.I hangman,
then your scores will be saved in that file when you quit.  If the
file already existed, you continue playing at the point you previously quit.
You can quit by answering 'n' after a game is complete, or by typing the
interrupt character at any time (even in the middle of a game).
.SH FILES
.nf
/usr/games/hangman	The program
/usr/dict/words     On-line word list
/etc/termcap	Terminal descriptions
.fi
